>> Hello and welcome to this course
on creating your big idea and
ensuring it has its
best chance of success.
You've had a big idea for
a digital service or
maybe an e-commerce site or
an app you wanna build.
How do you give it the best
chance of getting successful and
achieving what you want, and
that's what we're going to be looking at.
But before we get into that, I just
want to very briefly introduce myself,
so my name is Paul Boag, I've been
working in the industry for 30 years,
I know I don't look that old, but
just trust me, I have been and
I've been mainly focusing,
On user experience design.
But I do a lot of work at that kind of
crossroads between user experience design
and marketing as well,
which is gonna be very relevant
as we get into this more today.
I've got extensive experience
in conversion optimization and
the kind of marketing adjacent skills
that go along Beside that, and
I've helped dozens or dozens,
hundreds of clients in dozens of sectors.
But I've worked with a lot of SaSS
applications in both B2C and B2B,
and my clients kind of range from the big,
impressive ones that you're always
supposed to say things like this.
The Pumas of this world,
the Shopifys, the UK Government,
all that kind of stuff, all the way
down to smaller startups as well, and
to be honest, I enjoy them just as much.
But there is one thing above all else
that you need to know about me today.
This is crucial for the rest of this,
I'm a grumpy old man, I am a cynic.
The longer I've done this, the more
grumpy I've got over the years, and
you've also got to remember that I
lived through the dot com bubble.
So I'm completely cynical about
any kind of start up idea or
any kind of what we're going
to get Venture capital and
we're gonna take over the world and
anything like that, I am just grumpy.
And one of the areas that I'm most
grumpy about is the idea
of passive income, right?
I'm media.
Do you notice how positive this
workshop is gonna be today?
So I'm really grumpy about
the whole idea of passive income,
that there is some magic solution
where you can build an app or
a digital service or drop shipping or
any of that kind of stuff.
And suddenly money's just
gonna spontaneously appear.
Now I don't wanna speak on behalf of
Mark that founded Front end masters but
I'm pretty confident from what
I've seen that he's not sitting on
a beach the whole time with
money just pouring in and
he's kind of slowly sinking
under this pile of money.
He actually does do stuff.
I don't know whether his employees
would agree, but he's sitting here, so
that's gotta be something.
>> I'm not on a beach, unfortunately.
>> You're not on a beach.
Definitely not on a beach.
And so the truth is, that this idea of
passive income is a little bit misleading.
Now, it's not to say there are benefits
to building your own app and
your own SaaS service or whatever.
But the truth is it's a lot
more complicated than money's
just gonna flow in while I'm being grumpy,
right?
I will get more positive in a minute,
I promise.
While I'm being grumpy, it's worth
saying that 90% of startups fail, right?
And that's just the ones
that we know about.
Let alone all of the thousands and
thousands of ideas that a freelancer
has or a small agency has about
how to launch an app or an idea.
So there's an incredibly
high failure rate.
Can you tell that before now I've tried to
build something and it's failed horribly?
And I think I'm not alone in that and
oftentimes with these courses,
it's like we're gonna get somebody
who's been wildly successful
to talk about this kind of thing.
But if you think about it,
they've got lucky.
Yeah, sure,
they might have done some things right.
But you learn so much from failures as
well, and the mistakes that you've made.
So actually,
as I've worked with clients and
some clients I've helped
to really succeed.
Others, I've tried to help and we failed.
Sometimes I've built something
myself that's failed.
myself that's succeeded.
And there's so
much to learn through those experiences.
And over the years I've kind of
began to build up a bit of a picture
of why people's startups, why their
big ideas, fail to be successful.
And I would say, I mean there's
obviously lots of different reasons, but
there are kind of three that
really stand out to me.
That were gonna be explaining
Exploring in a lot more detail today.
One, is they don't really
solve a real problem, okay?
Many SaaS startups struggle
because they fail to solve
a meaningful problem for
a big enough audience, right?
It may make sense to you,
it may solve a problem that you have.
But it doesn't mean it solves a meaningful
problem for big enough group of people.
So that's one aspect of it.
The second reason that most SaaS
apps fail is poor marketing,
that having a robust strategy for
acquiring and
retaining customers It is essential,
right?
You can have the best idea in the world,
but
it doesn't mean that you're
gonna be successful.
This whole idea of, what is it,
the cream rises to the top is BS, right?
Who is the world's most famous Scientist?
You'll probably think of Einstein,
you'll probably think of Stephen Hawkins,
people like that.
But there are many other
scientists who have achieved,
maybe not as much as Einstein,
that's probably a bad example, but
have certainly achieved as much as
Stephen Hawkins, you've never heard of.
So the reason you've heard of those two
over others isn't just because they're
the best in the field, although they are.
It's not just because they're
incredibly bright, although they are.
It's because they're out there.
And it's the same with a product.
Just because you create a great product
doesn't mean anybody's gonna care or
buy it.
And then the third reason is there's
no real differentiation, okay?
So one of the reasons that the big
ideas often come about Is because we
see another product and we go, it doesn't
work quite the way I want it to, right?
And so we create our own version of it or
start thinking about
our own version of it.
But that might not be enough to clearly
differentiate it in the marketplace.
That might not be a benefit
that somebody else can clearly
understand in the same way.
So there you go, that's me done.
Thanks very much for coming, I hope
that left you with a clearer idea that
you're wasting your time
working on your big idea.
No, of course not.
It is absolutely worth it.
There are a lot of reasons why you
might be having this going around in
your head this app or
this digital service or
whatever that you you
think you want to go.
Create, and
there are benefits that can come from it.
Many people want to create a digital
service or a SAS app because they want to
escape the nine to five, you know,
they want to leave their corporate job.
And this is one way you could do that and
that's a perfectly valid reason for
wanting to build your own digital service.
Second is you might just be sick of your
boss or sick of working with clients.
I know a lot of agencies or freelancers
are just sick of dealing with other
people's problems and ideas, and
they wanna shape their own thing.
And you can absolutely do that
Creating your own digital service,
although don't get into your head that
you're not going to have a boss or
that you're not going to have clients,
because every one of your customers
becomes the equivalent of that.
And so you swap basically one boss or
a small number of clients with particular,
potentially hundreds of customers
that have all got their opinions and
all got different things
they want to build.
Now that said, it's still very different
experience to having a boss or
having a client's and it is a valid
reason for escaping that kind of cycle.
Another reason that a lot of people
want to create a SaaS app is to
escape that hourly ceiling, right?
They feel that their income is capped
by the number of hours they can work.
And a SaaS business
changes that dynamic and
allows you to earn more for
the time that you put in.
And that, again, is absolutely true,
it can do that and
that is hugely liberating you know I'm
most of the work that I do is capped
by how much I can charge an hour
because I'm primarily a consultant.
That's my primary income stream and
talking of that a SaaS app can be
In an alternative revenue stream,
it's an opportunity to maybe
supplement your existing income,
whether that be your nine to five job or
whether it be your
as a contractor or
a freelancer or an agency owner.
It can be really useful and
helpful to have additional
regular income that comes in.
So it is absolutely worth doing and
success is absolutely possible.
And I've seen people with no
venture capital behind them and
lots of experience behind them,
make a very good go of this.
And so, there is no reason why you
can't follow this and pursue it,
but you have to go into it with your
eyes open and aware of what's involved.
So success is possible, but
only with careful planning and
avoiding being impulsive in it and
just going,
I'm gonna start building something, right?
Now that said,
there are exceptions, right?
Because there can be many reasons for
wanting to build a your own app,
for example, or
your own SaaS service, okay?
And some of those reasons, you don't
need to be all grown up about it, right?
Some of those reasons, you don't
need to treat it like a business.
You might be doing it just for fun, right?
Secondly, it might be you
just wanna learn something.
When you do some of these
courses on Friend and Masters,
there's amazing things that you can learn.
And you wanna apply that to something
tangible and practical and so
you decide to build your own thing,
and that's great.
And you don't need some strategy or
marketing plan for that either.
You might be doing it just to help out to
help some local community organization or
a person or something else.
But beyond that, if you want to turn
it into a business, if you want it to
become a real thing, then we need to
treat it like a business from the start.
And that is what we're exploring
in this session today.
So let's run through the agenda
of what we're going to look at.
We are gonna look at four things today.
First of all,
we're gonna look at reviewing the market.
So all of this is gonna happen before
we start coding anything, okay?
Because I know that a lot of the people
watching this are gonna be developers and
your skill lies in development, okay?
The building the app is the easy bit
to you, it would be very hard to me,
[LAUGH] and it would crash and
burn horribly.
But in your case that is
gonna be the easiest bet.
But nevertheless, it's time consuming,
you could pump in hundreds
of hours into building something and
then it to fail horribly.
All that we're gonna be talking about
in this is kind of validating the idea
before we start investing a lot of our
time and energy into it unless of course,
you're just doing it for
fun in which case knock yourself out.
Number one, we're gonna review the market.
We're gonna see what else is going on,
see what other people are doing and
be really honest with ourselves
about whether there is a legitimate
gap in that market for
us and what we wanna do.
Number two, we're gonna understand
our audience who we think
this app is gonna appeal to, and
what they're really needing and wanting.
I know that a lot of people
build their first app to
meet their own needs or
needs they have, okay.
And we're encouraged to do that.
So build for what you know, build for
your own problems, and that's great.
But is there enough people just like
you with exactly your problems?
And do you actually know that or
are you just guessing about it?
So we need to understand
our audience a little bit.
We also need to define what we're gonna
build first, what's our starting point?
And how are we going to kind
of imagine that before we
just throw ourselves headlong
into code and then finally, and
probably most importantly of
everything we're gonna look at today,
we're gonna run a test
marketing campaign to find out
whether people really will buy this thing.
Because if you go to your friends and
family at least,
unless you have really
horrible friends and family.
And you say to them,
I've had this idea for an app.
I want an app that does x,
what do you think?
And they're gonna go, yeah,
that's brilliant, you go for it.
And then you go, would you pay for that?
Yeah, of course, I would.
They're lying to you, right?
They're lying to you because
they love you and they like you.
And even if you run a bit of a survey,
right, if I said to you,
do you want a nice new fancy shiny thing?
You go, yeah,
I do want a nice new shiny fancy thing.
But when I say, will you pay for that?
Yeah, I'll probably pay for that.
And then I say, can you give give me the
money now, No, I won't do that now, right?
So there is a big difference
between what people say and
what they'll actually do and we need
to get to the heart of that, all right?